---
layout: tbd
title:  IBM Streams Lab - Starting Streams Studio
description:
weight: 4
---

## Starting Streams Studio
In the lab, you'll use the Streams Studio, a graphical ... 

## {Notes}
_Need a good explanation of the benefits of Studio_

## How do I access Streams Studio?

To start Streams Studio:

1. On the VMware desktop, double-click the Streams Studio shortcut.

1. Accept the prepopulated workspace (/homes/streamsadmin/workspace) and click **OK**.

  {Notes}

  _Recommend removing info about windows opening: The Eclipse-based Studio IDE opens and settles down after a few progress dialogs disappear._

### Components of the Streams Studio interface

The Eclipse integrated development (IDE) environment is divided into multiple windows, which are called views.

### {Notes}
_Create a graphic with labels and adjust the following text accordingly._

* **Project Explorer** - Shows project contents and details.
* **Streams Explorer** - Shows domain and instance information, including any jobs that are running.
* **Editing pane** - Empty when Studio is started. This is where you edit code or create application graphs.
* **Outline** - When an SPL source file is open in the editor, this shows ...
* **Console** - Shows progress messages.
* **Properties** - NEED DESCRIPTION HERE.
* **Problems** - NEED DESCRIPTION HERE. WE CAN ADD A NOTE THAT WE WON'T USE IT IN THE LAB, BUT WE SHOULD EXPLAIN IT.

Taken together, all of these views comprise a **perspective** in Eclipse. When you open Streams Studio, it opens to the Streams perspective.

## {Notes}
_Perspective name is changing in 4.2. Final name TBD, but working name is currently Streams perspective._
You might see a few places where Streams is referred to as InfoSphere Streams. The name was shortened in the 4.1 release, but a few places (such as installation directories) still use InfoSphere Streams.
