---
layout: tbd
title:  IBM Streams Lab - Defining a stream type
description:
weight: 13
---

# Defining a stream type
What is a stream type? Why does the user need to create a stream type?

## {Notes}
_We should probably have a way to highlight best practices_

Rather than defining the schema (stream type) of each stream separately in the declaration of each stream, create a type ahead of time, so that each stream can simply refer to that type. This eliminates code duplication and improves consistency and maintainability.

Therefore, you’ll begin by creating a type, `LocationType`, for the vehicle location data that will be the main kind of tuple flowing through the application.

## {Notes}
_We should define tuple. We haven't done that up to this point, and it's an important concept in Streams apps._

Use the following information to create the stream type:

| Name | Type | Comments |
|------|------|----------|
| id | rstring | Vehicle ID (an rstring uses “raw” 8-bit characters) |
| time | int64 | Observation timestamp (milliseconds since 00:00:00 on January 1, 1970)|
| latitude | float64 | Latitude (degrees) |
| longitude | float64 | Longitude (degrees) |
| speed | float64 | Vehicle speed (km/h) |
| heading | float64 | Direction of travel (degrees, clockwise from north) |

To define a stream type:

1. In the graphical editor for MySourceFile.spl, right-click anywhere on the canvas, outside the main composite (MyMainComposite), and choose Edit.

  This brings up a Properties view, which floats above all the other views. Make sure it looks as below, with the three tabs for General, Uses, and Types; if not, dismiss it and right-click again in the graphical editor, outside the main composite.

1. In the Properties view, click the Types tab.
Select the field under Name, which says Add new type….

  * Key in LocationType; press Enter.

  * Select the field in the Name column below LocationType, which says Add attribute….

  * Key in id; press Tab to go to the Type column.

  * Key in rstring; Press Tab to go to the next name field.

 	Content assist
  In the Type column, use Ctrl+Space to get a list of available types. Begin typing (for example, “r” for rstring) to narrow down the list; when the type you want is selected, press Enter to assign it to the field. This reduces keyboard effort as well as the probability of errors.

1. Continue typing and using Tab to jump to the next field to enter the attribute names and types listed in Table 3, above.

  Leave the Properties view open.

## Check your results
The tuple type LocationType is now available for use as a stream type in any main composite within the namespace my.name.space.

## {Notes}

Properties views
An alternative to the floating Properties view, which may obscure other views and get in your way, is the Properties tab in the view at the bottom of the perspective. It shows the same information.
