---
layout: tbd
title:  IBM Streams Lab - Adding streams to your application graph
description:
weight: 12
---

# Adding streams to your application graph
_What is a stream in this context?_

To add streams to your application graph:

1. Add a stream connecting FileSource_2’s output to Filter_3’s input.

  Output ports are shown as little yellow boxes on the right side of an operator; input ports on the left. To create a stream, click on an output port and start dragging. The cursor changes to a + cross, dragging a line from the output port. Release the mouse button as you drag, and click on the input port of another operator (it turns green when you hover over it) to complete the link. The two ports are now connected by a dashed line, indicating that there is a stream but its type is not yet defined.

1. Add another stream, from Filter_3 to FileSink_1. Click  Layout and Fit to Content to organize the graph.

1. Save your work: use Ctrl+S or the   Save toolbar button, or File > Save in the menu.


###  Hover popups
By default, hovering over an operator in the graphical editor brings up a popup showing the SPL code behind that operator. As you build and lay out the graph, these popups may get in the way. Click the Toggle hover toolbar button to turn off these popups.


### Check your results	
The main composite as well as the three operators it contains now have   error indicators. This is expected, as the code so far contains only placeholders for the parameters and stream types, and those placeholders are not valid entries.
