---
layout: tbd
title:  IBM Streams Lab - Adding operators to your application graph
description:
weight: 12
---

# Adding operators to your application graph
_What are operators? What do they do in the application?_

Operator templates
Some operators appear once in the palette; others (the ones you used) have twisties and expand into one or more subentries. These are templates: invocations of the operator with specific settings—for example, a Filter operator with a second output port to produce rejected tuples. In this lab, the generic version (with the twisty) is always the right one; don’t use the templates.

Operator names
The editor generates placeholder names for the operators you drag onto the canvas, consisting of the operator kind (“FileSink”) and a sequence number (“1”). The sequence number depends on the order in which the operators are added to the graph, and yours may not match this document. You can safely ignore that: it does not affect anything in the application, and in any case you will change the generated names later, to match the role each operator plays.

Organize layout and maximize in view
To organize the layout, click the   Layout button in the editor’s toolbar; to zoom in and use all of the space in the graphical editor canvas, click the   Fit to Content button. The slider in the toolbar lets you manually control the zoom level.


### Before you begin
First, you will reduce clutter in the palette. Initially, the list of toolkits is long, because it shows all toolkits that Streams Studio knows about; in your preconfigured lab workspace, that means all toolkits installed with Streams. For now, you will not use any of those toolkits (and you have not declared any dependencies), so it is not helpful to have them in the palette.


To drop the operators you want into the editor, you need to find them in the palette: this is the panel to the left of the canvas, showing various elements under the headings Design, Toolkits, Exported Streams, Governance Catalogs, and Current Graph.

You are looking for three specific operators: FileSource, FileSink, and Filter. You can filter the palette contents and quickly get the ones you want.

To add operators to your application graph:


1. In the graphical editor for MySourceFile.spl, go to the palette filter field (showing Find), and type fil. As it happens, this narrows the palette down to a list that includes the three operators you need. Select each of the ones with a twisty in front of it in turn and drag it into the MyMainComposite main composite (make sure the green handles appear before you let go). The editor names the operators: FileSink_1, FileSource_2, and Filter_3.

  Note
  Make sure that the main composite MyMainComposite, and not one of the previously added operators, is highlighted when you drop the next operator. If a Confirm Overwrite dialog comes up, simply click No and try again.

  Note
  If you drop the operator on the canvas outside the main composite, the editor creates a new composite (called Comp_1) and places the operator there. If that happens, simply undo (Ctrl+Z or Edit > Undo Add Composite with Operator) and try again.
