---
layout: tbd
title:  IBM Streams Lab - Specifying stream properties
description:
weight: 12
---

# Specifying stream properties
_Why does the user need to complete this step?_

## Refactoring
Why do you have to click a button and bring up a new dialog to rename a stream or an operator? Why not just type away in the field showing the name?
Because changing a name involves a refactoring process, meaning that all references to that name must be found and changed too. Streams Studio needs a signal to know when to kick off this process; in this case, you provide that signal by clicking OK.

1. To assign a name and type to a stream, select the stream (dashed arrow) connecting FileSource_2 and Filter_3. (Sometimes you need to try a few times before the cursor catches the stream, instead of selecting the enclosing main composite.)

  The Properties view, which you used earlier to create LocationType, now shows Stream properties. Reposition and resize the view if necessary so it doesn’t obscure the graph you’re editing. (If you closed the Properties view, double-click the stream to reopen it.)

1. Descriptive stream names are preferable to the placeholder names generated by the editor.

  * In the Properties view (General tab), click Rename….

  * In the Rename dialog, under Specify a new name: type Observations, and click OK.

1. Specify the stream schema. You can do that in the Properties view, but since you have created a type for this, you can also just drag and drop it in the graphical editor, like any other object.

  In the graphical editor, clear the palette filter by clicking the eraser button   next to where you typed fil earlier; this makes all the objects visible again. Under Current Graph, expand Schemas. This shows the LocationType type, along with the names of the two streams in the graph. Select LocationType and drag it into the graph; drop it onto the Observations stream (the one between FileSource_2 and Filter_3). Make sure the stream’s selection handles turn green as you hover before you let go, as shown below.

  If you open the Properties view to the Schema tab, it now shows a Type of LocationType, and <extends> as a placeholder under Name. This indicates that the stream type does not contain some named attribute of type LocationType, but instead inherits the entire schema with its attribute names and types.

1. Using the same drag and drop technique, assign the LocationType type to the other stream, between Filter_3 and FileSink_1. Select that stream so its properties show in the Properties view.

1. In the Properties view, General tab, rename the stream to Filtered. (Click Rename…, etc.)


There is still an error indicator on FileSink_1 and, because of that, on the main composite, too. This is expected, because you have not yet told the FileSink operator what file to write. You also need to provide details for the other operators.
